So on GitHub,
now that I've created a repo,
you're now able to find
the work I've done so
far on this sort of Mike's TypeScript
boilerplate project.
So if you wanna go to GitHub and
check that out,
then make sure I actually push that.
It's possible I didn't push my code,
we'll see.
It's there now, in any case.
So if you didn't follow my
instructions perfectly, or
if you ran into some problems,
now you can check out exactly
the code that you saw me write.
And if you're watching this,
you're watching this on the video,
just make sure you look
at the readme carefully,
because I'm gonna make sure that
it's very clear which branch,
or commit, or tag you can look to for
each each part of this process.
And where we are right now is we have
linting, TypeScript doing the building,
and we have tests running with Jest.
So we're gonna add one more thing, and
it is probably something that
you haven't seen before.
Just a moment, I gotta pick something up.
So we're gonna add an API
documentation tool.
And there are a lot of different like
doc tools out there for JavaScript and
TypeScript projects.
This one in particular is I think the best
option that exists today for TypeScript.
And it's called API extractor,
sounds fancy, I know.
So we're gonna pick up in
the notes section for,
and it'll be a little part at the bottom.
It's about 80% of the way to the bottom,
and it's called API.
It's called API Surface Report and Docs.
Look for that heading,
API Surface Report and Docs.
So where we're gonna begin is we have
to install two new packages,
yarn add microsoft/api-extractor and
microsoft/api-documenter.
These are two CLIs, each of which
serves a very specific purpose.
And I like that these are separate tools,
because they leave you with options,
in terms of maybe you just wanna
adopt one or the other, or both.
But the choice is yours.
So first,
we're gonna focus on API extractor.
And the job of this tool is to look at
our declaration files, and analyze them,
produce a report on our
public API surface,
and produce a JSON file that
can be used to make docs.
So it's all about analyzing our project,
and
producing stuff that
describes our library.
That stuff could be a markdown file.
That's an API report.
A dtsRollup, which is kinda like a roll
up.js, if you've ever used that, right,
a bunch of things all combined into
a single file, and then a JSON file.
So you've got three different
forms of similar information.
We are going to follow this theme
today of getting that first
basic config file from
these CLIs themselves.
So this one is yarn api-extractor init.
Careful you don't do double dash in it
like we've done with some other tools.
And a couple things have happened.
Actually, just one at this point here.
We have a JSON file.
Here are your red squiggles.
Remember I told you about comments
not really being part of JSON?
Well, we can change the language
mode in VS Code and
say JSON with comments, and
look, everything's gone.
Now, there's a way to set this up in
your settings if you care to do so,
I'm not gonna get into that too much.
We just need to make a few changes here.
So you're gonna look for
mainEntryPointFilePath.
So API extractor expects your library
to have a single entry point where
all of the imports come from.
So a good example would be react, right?
You're not importing things
from react/component.
Everything's just coming from react.
There's this one module.
Everything comes from that.
So that is the opinion That
comes with API extractor.
That you should build things that way.
And I feel like that's a good idea,
because it let's you have very
deliberate public API surface.
So it's go to look at project
folder which is the root of my
kit repo./lib/index.d.ts.
And I want dist instead of lib.
So we're gonna make that
one little change there.
And then there are a couple
other things we're gonna do.
We're gonna look for our dtsRollup,
and whether that's enabled or not.
Here's my API report doc model.
All right, dtsRollup, looks like this
is already enabled, it's set to true.
If you see little carrot m in the notes
as line endings, just ignore those.
That is a mistake.
It's like line feed,
it's like lf instead of crlf,
like carrot return versus line feed.
Anyway, that's not something
that you should type here.
Just make sure that
this is set to enabled.
Next, we're gonna look for
untrimmedFilePath, here it is.
And what we're doing
here is we're describing
different versions of our API surface
that we can make available to people.
This is super cool.
This is where we get the ability to say,
I have a new method available on a class,
but it's in beta test.
It doesn't have the same SemVer
guarantees as my stable release, right?
So here are the types for beta,
and here are the types for stable.
So we need an untrimmedFilePath,
because that represents our
entire API surface untrimmed.
Nothing's been trimmed away.
So just make sure you're
careful about commas,
because with these comments,
the commas can get lost.
So if you see red squiggles here,
it's probably because of that you see here
it doesn't like that comma,
but we're gonna keep going.
So we've got our untrimmedFilePath.
We're gonna comment.
We're gonna enable the beta
trimmed file path, and
it is fine to just sort
of leave this as is.
Actually, I wanna make one little change
up here to align with the notes for
untrimmed, because it is everything,
I wanna add private to the end.
This might be something that you
would consume for testing your code.
It might include private APIs that you
wouldn't want appearing in an autocomplete
for users.
So untrimmed, everything's in
the dist folder, right, untrimmed,
and so it's private.
This is our beta.
So beta ends with beta, so
this one's already good.
And then we've got public.
And let's make this one.
Let's get rid of the public here.
So I've just added my
own little opinion here.
I feel the default thing
that people should look for
should just be your package name .d.ts,
right?
Cuz if they don't know
anything about API Extractor,
then they don't need to worry
about these conventions.
And I feel like it's more important
to indicate what is private,
what you shouldn't use, as opposed to
indicating public, that you should use it.
Cuz it's a little bit
more explicit of a signal this is private,
you shouldn't use it.
So I wanna mark the private,
as opposed to letting people deduce
that it's private, if that makes sense.
All right, so I'm gonna save, which,
should remove that trailing comma for
me, save, and it does.
Otherwise, you can delete it yourself.
And we are done with this file for now.
All right, we need to do one more
thing before we try API Extractor, and
that's make a folder called etc.
This is where your API
report is gonna live.
And the folder must exist before
you try and run this command.
Now it's time to take it for a spin,
yarn api-extractor run, and then --local.
So that's what we ran.
And we can see on the left
a couple things happened.
So first, new declaration files appeared.
So we've got private.
We have beta.
They all look kinda
the same at this point.
This one's missing something here.
This is my public API surface.
It only has AVG.
But if I look at beta, look at this.
So because some three,
this function was marked as beta,
it's not part of my
public API surface yet.
Somebody could opt into this, but
they would have to take an extra step
to use this beta feature, which is
exactly what you want for a beta test.
You want people to be able to,
by default, get the stable experience.
And if they're doing what they
should be doing with the beta,
which is just evaluating it,
not using it in production,
not using it at scale,
that's what makes a beta test.
Well, then they have to make a little
change, and it's pretty simple for
a consumer of this library
to make this change.